Minor edits and updates for clarity and deduplication (#11)
Arcadia-Science/arcadia-software-handbook: guides-and-standards/standards--source-control.md

    - [What not to keep under version control](#what-not-to-keep-under-version-control)
    - [Review templates](#review-templates)
    - [\[Optional\] Reviewing Jupyter notebooks using the ReviewNB tool](#optional-reviewing-jupyter-notebooks-using-the-reviewnb-tool)
  - [Data management](#data-management)
  - [Guidelines for collaborating on codebases with collaborators who are not Arcadians](#guidelines-for-collaborating-on-codebases-with-collaborators-who-are-not-arcadians)
  - [Common pitfalls and tricks to overcome them](#common-pitfalls-and-tricks-to-overcome-them)
  - [Tutorials](#tutorials)
  - [Credits](#credits)

## About Git and GitHub

Version control is the practice of tracking and managing changes to software code. This means we can easily see who made what change when and potentially revert to earlier version of the code. It is an essential collaboration tool for large teams to build complex software. [Git](https://git-scm.com/) is a free and open source distributed version control system. Since version control tools like Git work across platforms, it also makes access to code repositories easy and consistent across environments.

> [GitHub](https://github.com/) is built on top of Git and is our primary version control service. We have an [Arcadia Science account](https://github.com/Arcadia-Science) and we expect that team members will maintain their code in repositories under this team account.

Reviewer: May be worth adding that ppl can use their existing github username, they don't need to create a new account for Arcadia. maybe a little redundant bc most people looking at this will have already "signed up" for github, so no worries if you don't want to add that

Author: Added. This repo is (somewhat surprisingly) public, so readers won't necessarily have signed up or been added to the arcadia github org.

> [GitHub](https://github.com/) is built on top of Git and is our primary version control service. We have an [Arcadia Science account](https://github.com/Arcadia-Science) and we expect that team members will maintain their code in repositories under this team account.

Reviewer 2: Although an organization is an account, I found it confusing to be referred that way. To me it almost sounded like we all share the same login or something.

```suggestion
[GitHub](https://github.com/) is built on top of Git and is our primary version control service. We have a [GitHub organization](https://github.com/Arcadia-Science) that we expect all code repositories developed at Arcadia to be housed under.
```

Author: Agreed; fixed along w Taylor's comment on the same line (so I did not commit this suggestion)

- **README**: Repositories should contain a descriptive README document.
- **License**: Each repository should have a license file. The default license for Arcadia Science repositories is [the MIT license](https://github.com/Arcadia-Science/python-analysis-template/blob/main/LICENSE).
- **Archiving repositories:** If a repository is no longer useful, make it read-only by archiving it. Follow the instructions [here](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/archiving-a-github-repository/archiving-repositories).
- **No deleted repositories:** Never delete repositories. This ensures that other members (past and future) of Arcadia can see what worked and what hasn’t.

### Public repositories

Additional standards apply to public repositories to ensure that the code we release is reusable by others and that the computational artifacts we release are reproducible by others. These standards are described in a separate document [here](./standards--public-repos.md).

### Repository templates

> We have Arcadia-specific templates for [Python](https://github.com/Arcadia-Science/python-analysis-template), [R](https://github.com/Arcadia-Science/r-analysis-template), [Snakemake](https://github.com/Arcadia-Science/snakemake-template), and [Nextflow](https://github.com/Arcadia-Science/nextflow-template-repository) repositories. It is strongly recommended to start new projects using these templates, as this will mean that your repository will automatically satisfy most of the requirements listed above.

Reviewer: do we have a python package one now too?

Author: yes! added.

### Default repository settings

Each repository should have the following settings. Please check this set of boxes when you create a new repo:

> <img width="768" alt="Default repository settings" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2692053/189210914-32052663-e2d3-4ab6-a418-1d1aca6a9afd.png">

Reviewer 2: Nice

### [Optional] Code owners

For projects with a lot of coordination between team members, it may make sense to define individuals or teams that are responsible for sections of code in a repository. This may make it easier to seek the appropriate code review before merging a pull request. You can accomplish this by using the [Code Owners](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners) feature of Github by creating a `CODEOWNERS` file under the `.github` directory of your project. An example codeowners template file can be found [here](../.github/CODEOWNERS).

## Branches and pull requests

### Working on branches

> - We work on repositories using branches and not forks.

Reviewer: we've had to fork external repos a couple times, idk if that's worth adding

Author: Added!

- Files under 100MB in size can be stored in the repository.
- Private files over 100MB should be stored in a cloud storage service (e.g. an S3 bucket or Google Drive) and instructions to access the files should be included in the README.
- Public files should be stored in a public archive (e.g. the Sequence Read Archive), in a Zenodo repository, or in a publicly-accessible S3 bucket. Reach out to the software team for help with this.
- When we generate data, they should be stored in a location where they are replicated and uploaded to the relevant database as soon as possible (e.g. raw sequencing data uploaded to the Sequence Read Archive). If possible, the code should be updated to match the above. For more on this, please see the relevant publishing documentation [here](https://www.notion.so/arcadiascience/Sharing-Data-eca60da150f04a7a905a8540871f0364).

## Guidelines for collaborating on codebases with collaborators who are not Arcadians

> - Before beginning a collaboration, please consult with your manager and our legal counsel to make sure there are not licensing and legal problems with your collaboration.

Reviewer: Do we have legal counsel anymore?

Author: There was some mention of this in the most recent goals/status update. I suppose under publishing 2.0 we are our own counsel, if nothing else. Will leave as-is for now.

> - If you’re working on an Arcadia Science repository with outside collaborators, the repository is most likely already public. If so, that’s great! If the repository is private, you can include the Github account to the repository as an “outside collaborator”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you’re working on an Arcadia Science repository with outside collaborators, the repository is most likely already public. If so, that’s great! If the repository is private, you can include the GitHub account as an “outside collaborator”.
```

- Either way, the rules in this document as it pertains to code review and working in branches apply to outside collaborators as well.
- If you plan to actively work on a repository with outside collaborators, it’s recommended to add `CONTRIBUTING.MD` and `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md` files to the root of the repository to set expectations ahead of time. Default templates for these will be available soon.

## Common pitfalls and tricks to overcome them

> Git is notoriously difficult to use. It’s easy to get stuck in a quagmire of git branches and have no idea how to work your way out. If this happens to you, we’ve all been there, don’t panic! ChatGPT and/or Google are a good first option to see if you can identify a solution. If not, post in the #software-questions Slack channel to get help from fellow Arcadian. See below for some common pitfalls and some strategies to avoid or overcome them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Git is notoriously difficult to use. It’s easy to get stuck in a quagmire of git branches and have no idea how to work your way out. If this happens to you, we’ve all been there, don’t panic! ChatGPT and/or Google are a good first option to see if you can identify a solution. If not, post in the #software-questions Slack channel to get help from a fellow Arcadian. See below for some common pitfalls and some strategies to avoid or overcome them.
```

- **Starting from the wrong branch.** A branch can start from the `main` branch of a GitHub repo, or any other branch that already exists. Before you start a new branch, check that you’re on the branch you want to start from with `git branch`. If you’re not, use `git checkout <branch name>` to get to the branch you want to start with before creating a new one. It is helpful to customize your terminal of choice to always show the current branch name. See instructions [here](https://askubuntu.com/questions/730754/how-do-i-show-the-git-branch-with-colours-in-bash-prompt).
- **Merge conflicts.** When two pull requests touch the same line of code in different ways, this usually creates a merge conflict. If you’re working on a project mostly alone, you can avoid merge conflicts by only working on one section of code per branch. If this isn’t possible, or if you’re working with multiple people, have no fear! GitHub can walk you through resolving the merge conflict by having you select the lines of code you wish to keep.

## Tutorials

> There are approximately billions of Git and GitHub tutorials online. Here are some that I found interesting:

Reviewer: should our hello-world repo and the AUG lessons be added here?

Author: Added!
